_docs/1012-machine-learning-guide.md, before:

---
title: "Machine Learning Guide"
permalink: /docs/machine-learning-guide
---

**This guide is currently under construction**

If you follow this guide, you learn how to create and reproduce a comprehensive machine learning experiment, that leverages the full potential of the CC framework.
Before you continue, make sure that you have understood the contents of the [RED Beginner's Guide](/docs/red-beginners-guide).

This guide contains two experiments.
In the first experiment, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is trained on the PCAM dataset to classify tumor tissue in pathological image slides.
The second experiment uses the trained model in an inference task.


## Prerequisites

Using an **Nvidia GPU** for training acceleration is **recommended** but not required.

The dataset used in this guide is located on the `avocado01.f4.htw-berlin.de` storage server, that is not available to the public.
You can still follow the guide using your **own SSH server**.


### Download Dataset to Storage Server

You can skip this section, if you have SSH access to `avocado01.f4.htw-berlin.de`.

Commit message:

small update to beginners guide, download section in machine learning guide

_docs/1012-machine-learning-guide.md, after:

---
title: "Machine Learning Guide"
permalink: /docs/machine-learning-guide
---

**This guide is currently under construction**

If you follow this guide, you learn how to create and reproduce a comprehensive machine learning experiment, that leverages the full potential of the CC framework.
Before you continue, make sure that you have understood the contents of the [RED Beginner's Guide](/docs/red-beginners-guide).

This guide contains two experiments.
In the first experiment, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is trained on the [PCAM](https://github.com/basveeling/pcam) dataset to classify tumor tissue in pathological image slides.
The second experiment uses the trained model in an inference task.


## Prerequisites

Using an **Nvidia GPU** for training acceleration is **recommended** but not required.

The dataset used in this guide is located on the `avocado01.f4.htw-berlin.de` storage server, that is not available to the public.
You can still follow the guide using your **own SSH server**.


### Download Dataset to Storage Server

You can skip this section, if you have SSH access to `avocado01.f4.htw-berlin.de`.

Login to your SSH server, create a `PCAM` folder in your home directory, download the PCAM dataset using `curl` and extract the files using `gunzip`.

```bash
SSH_USERNAME=christoph
SSH_HOST=avocado01.f4.htw-berlin.de
ssh ${SSH_USERNAME}:${SSH_HOST}
mkdir PCAM
curl -fO https://zenodo.org/record/2546921/files/camelyonpatch_level_2_split_train_x.h5.gz
curl -fO https://zenodo.org/record/2546921/files/camelyonpatch_level_2_split_train_y.h5.gz
curl -fO https://zenodo.org/record/2546921/files/camelyonpatch_level_2_split_valid_x.h5.gz
curl -fO https://zenodo.org/record/2546921/files/camelyonpatch_level_2_split_valid_y.h5.gz
curl -fO https://zenodo.org/record/2546921/files/camelyonpatch_level_2_split_test_x.h5.gz
curl -fO https://zenodo.org/record/2546921/files/camelyonpatch_level_2_split_test_y.h5.gz
gunzip *.h5.gz
```

When following the tutorial, you have to **replace** all occurrences of `dirPath: /data/ldap/PCAM` with `dirPath: PCAM` and all occurrences of `host: avocado01.f4.htw-berlin.de` with your own SSH server.


## Training Experiment
